# thesis-generating-synthetic-electricity-consumption-profiles
The code I have used for the research of the thesis: 'generating synthetic electricity consumption profiles'.

The abstract:

'The method currently implemented to estimate the electrical load of a low-voltage grid within Alliander, the largest utility company of the Netherlands, requires a large data set with smart meter profiles of real customers. Although this method provides satisfactory estimates, using real data also imposes privacy and memory restrictions. In order to conquer these restrictions, I have investigated whether it is possible to ’synthesize’ a data set with smart meter profiles using a generative model which generates synthetic data that ideally falls within the same distribution of the training data.

For this study, two models, namely a more complex generative adversarial network (GAN) and a simpler Gaussian mixture model (GMM), were trained on a data set with smart meter profiles and compared by measuring the difference of the generated profiles with the real data using statistical analysis. An additional evaluation was also performed to determine how well the generated profiles could be implemented within a load flow calculation of Alliander.

Both models performed well in the statistical analysis. However, the profiles generated by the GMM model outperformed those of the TimeGAN model. Furthermore, the result of the load flow calculation based on GMM profiles approximated the real load flow calculation better than a calculation based on the TimeGAN profiles.

Based on the results of the study, the GMM model seems to be a suitable model to deploy within Alliander, considering that the generated profiles from the model produced very similar results, compared to real profiles, for an application of Alliander and the model requires relatively few resources to train and generate new synthetic data instances.'

The repository consists of 4 jupyter notebooks:

1. **data_visualisations**: The code for the data visualizations of the generated profiles in the thesis. 
2. **loadflow_validation**: The code for the evaluation of the conducted load flow validation.
3. **GMM_training_notebook**: The implemented code to train the gaussian mixture model - and create new data instances based on the trained model.
4. **Timegan_training_notebook**: The implemented code to train the TimeGAN model - and create new data instances based on the trained model.

